en: add doc for tidbmonitor shards (#1619)
pingcap/docs-tidb-operator: en/enable-monitor-shards.md

---
title: Enable Shards for TidbMonitor
summary: Learn how to use shards for TidbMonitor.
---

# Enable Shards for TidbMonitor

This document describes how to use shards for TidbMonitor.

## Shards

> TidbMonitor collects monitoring data for a single TiDB cluster or multiple TiDB clusters. When the amount of monitoring data is large, the computing power of one TidbMonitor might hit a bottleneck. In this case, it is recommended to use shards of Prometheus [Modulus](https://prometheus.io/docs/prometheus/latest/configuration/configuration/). This feature performs `hashmod` on `__address__` to divide the monitoring data of multipel targets (`Targets`) into multiple TidbMonitor Pods.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
TidbMonitor collects monitoring data for a single TiDB cluster or multiple TiDB clusters. When the amount of monitoring data is large, the computing capacity of one TidbMonitor might hit a bottleneck. In this case, it is recommended to use shards of Prometheus [Modulus](https://prometheus.io/docs/prometheus/latest/configuration/configuration/). This feature performs `hashmod` on `__address__` to divide the monitoring data of multiple targets (`Targets`) into multiple TidbMonitor Pods.
```
